Add migration guide (#518)
cloudant/java-cloudant: MIGRATION.md

2. [External configuration file](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-external-configuration)
3. [Programmatically](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#programmatic-authentication)

[See the README](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#code-examples) for code examples on using environment variables.

## Other differences
1. Fetching the Database object first before performing additional operations is not required. For example, in the case of updating a document you would first call `getDocument` to fetch and then `putDocument` to update.
1. Model classes are used instead of POJOs. See examples in the [POJO usage in the `cloudant-java-sdk` library](#pojo-usage-in-the-new-library).
1. Sending and receiving byte responses is available for operations that accept user-defined documents or return user-defined documents, document projections or map/reduce data. See [the Raw IO section](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#raw-io) of `cloudant-java-sdk` README for more details.
1. There is no pagination support for views. Examples coming soon.

### POJO usage in the new library

> The new library is using models instead of POJOs, but it is still possible to migrate your

Reviewer: What if we update these sentences and merge the "Suppose that..." sentences into one?
```suggestion
Since the new library supports models, this guide will provide you three ways to migrated your POJOs from `java-cloudant`.
Let's start with a simple POJO:
```

Author: Done in 965c020.

code with the new library.

Suppose that you have the following POJO and a simple read and write implementation with the `com.cloudant:cloudant-client` library you have three possibilities for the migration.

```java
public class POJO {
    private String _id;
    private String name;

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        return _id + ": " + name;
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: If we use my suggestion above, then here we can have a short sentence:
```
The code block below uses the POJO in a simple read and write implementation using 
Cloudant Query to read the object and then updating the document in the database.
```

Author: Done in 965c020.

## Other differences
1. Fetching the Database object first before performing additional operations is not required. For example, in the case of updating a document you would first call `getDocument` to fetch and then `putDocument` to update.
1. Model classes are used instead of POJOs. See examples in the [POJO usage in the `cloudant-java-sdk` library](#pojo-usage-in-the-new-library).
1. Sending and receiving byte responses is available for operations that accept user-defined documents or return user-defined documents, document projections or map/reduce data. See [the Raw IO section](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#raw-io) of `cloudant-java-sdk` README or the [Bypass the document model and use the `asStream` methods section](#3-bypass-the-document-model-and-use-the-asstream-methods) for more details.
1. There is no pagination support for views. Examples coming soon.

### POJO usage in the new library

Since the new library supports models, this guide will provide you three ways to migrated your POJOs from `java-cloudant`.

Let's start with a simple POJO:

```java

> public class POJO {

Reviewer: I don't think the class needs to be all-caps and can just be `Pojo`

Author: Done in 20fe825.

    private String _id;
    private String name;

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        return _id + ": " + name;
    }
}
```
The code block below uses the POJO in a simple read and write implementation using
Cloudant Query to read the object and then updating the document in the database.

```java

> //... set up the service client and the database

Reviewer: Remove prefix dots
```suggestion
// set up the service client and the database
```
I think it may be good to just add the code for creating a client and database.

Author: I think anyone who wants to migrate knows how to do all this. Anyway, it's all in README and javadoc.

> POJO p = db.find(POJO.class, "example_id");

Reviewer: Shouldn't we use camel case? e.g. `exampleId`

Author: I took this from the [README](https://github.com/cloudant/java-cloudant/blob/master/README.md#getting-started)'s `ExampleDocument`.

System.out.println(doc); // will be a JSON

// Set the JSON properties to the POJO
POJO p = new POJO();
p.setName((String) doc.getProperties().get("name"))
System.out.println(p); // will be a POJO with the same name as the JSON

p.setName("new_name");
System.out.println(p.getName()); // new_name

doc.put("name", p.getName()); // add your modifications to the Document object

PutDocumentOptions putDocumentOptions =
        new PutDocumentOptions.Builder()
                .db("example_db")
                .docId("example_id")
                .document(doc)
                .build();

DocumentResult response = service.putDocument(putDocumentOptions).execute()
                                .getResult();
```

#### 2. Convert the `Document` model into a POJO (and vice versa)

```java
//... set up the service client
GetDocumentOptions documentOptions =
                new GetDocumentOptions.Builder()
                        .db("example_db")
                        .docId("example_id")
                        .build();

Document doc = service.getDocument(documentOptions)
        .execute()
        .getResult();

System.out.println(doc); // will be a JSON

// Serialize the JSON to POJO

> POJO p = YourJsonSerializer.fromJson(doc.toString(), POJO.class);

Reviewer: Could we use Gson in the examples and add a note about having your own custom serializer if needed? Then users can try these examples out without needing an implementation for `YourJsonSerializer`.

Author: I talked about this with @ricellis offline, and he suggested using the `YourJsonSerializer`. This way we are emphasizing that the developer can use any serializer of his choice.

Reviewer 2: Yeah in light of #352 I wanted it to be very clear that this is flexible and not restricted to GSON - I'm open to other ideas on how to do that though

Reviewer: Ok makes sense.

2. [External configuration file](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-external-configuration)
3. [Programmatically](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#programmatic-authentication)

[See the README](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#code-examples) for code examples on using environment variables.

## Other differences
1. Fetching the Database object first before performing additional operations is not required. For example, in the case of updating a document you would first call `getDocument` to fetch and then `putDocument` to update.
1. Model classes are used instead of POJOs. See examples in the [POJO usage in the `cloudant-java-sdk` library](#pojo-usage-in-the-new-library).
1. Sending and receiving byte responses is available for operations that accept user-defined documents or return user-defined documents, document projections or map/reduce data. See [the Raw IO section](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#raw-io) of `cloudant-java-sdk` README or the [Bypass the document model and use the `asStream` methods section](#3-bypass-the-document-model-and-use-the-asstream-methods) for more details.

> 1. There is no pagination support for views. Examples coming soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. There is no built-in pagination support for views. Examples coming soon.
```

### POJO usage in the new library

> Since the new library supports models, this guide will provide you three ways to migrated your POJOs from `java-cloudant`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the new library supports models, this guide will demonstrate three ways to migrate your POJOs from `java-cloudant`.
```

Let's start with a simple POJO:

```java
public class Pojo {
    private String name;

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        return name;
    }
}
```

> The code block below uses the POJO in a simple read and write implementation using
> Cloudant Query to read the object and then updating the document in the database.

Reviewer 2: This isn't actually Cloudant Query, the method name is just really confusing compared to the HTTP endpoints - thankfully one of the things we fixed in the new SDK :)

```suggestion
The code block below uses the POJO in a simple update implementation - reading the
document into an object, performing an update and then writing the updated document in
the database.
```

// Serialize the JSON to Pojo
Pojo p = YourJsonSerializer.fromJson(doc.toString(), Pojo.class);
System.out.println(p); // the value of the Pojo's toString method

p.setName("new_name");
System.out.println(p.getName()); // will be new_name

// Deserialize the Pojo back to the Document model
doc.setProperties(YourJsonSerializer.fromJson(YourJsonSerializer.toJson(p), Map.class));

PutDocumentOptions putDocumentOptions =
                new PutDocumentOptions.Builder()
                        .db("example_db")
                        .docId("example_id")
                        .document(doc)
                        .build();

DocumentResult response =
        service.putDocument(putDocumentOptions)
                .execute()
                .getResult();
```

#### 3. Bypass the `Document` model and use the `AsStream` methods

```java
//set up the service client
GetDocumentOptions documentOptions =
        new GetDocumentOptions.Builder()
                .db("example_db")
                .docId("example_id")
                .build();

Pojo p = new Pojo()
try(InputStream is = service.getDocumentAsStream(documentOptions).execute().getResult()){

>     InputStreamReader isr = new InputStreamReader(is, StandardCharsets.UTF_8);

Reviewer 2: I'd just drop this line, handling of a raw `InputStream`/`Reader` will be serializer dependent anyway - and we're missing the equivalent charset on the `getBytes()` for the put.
```suggestion
```

>     p = YourSeriliazer.fromJson(isr, Old.Pojo.class);

Reviewer: I don't see any reference to `Old.Pojo`.  Shouldn't this be:
```suggestion
    p = YourSeriliazer.fromJson(isr, Pojo.class);
```

Author: Thanks! It leaked from my trial code.

**Note:** There are many API operations included in the new `cloudant-java-sdk` that are not available in the `java-cloudant` library. The [API documentation](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java) contains the full list of operations.

|java-cloudant operation | cloudant-java-sdk method reference |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|`metaInformation()`|[getServerInformation](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#getserverinformation)|
|`getActiveTasks()`|[getActiveTasks](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#getactivetasks)|
|`getAllDbs()`|[getAllDbs](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#getalldbs)|
|`getMembership()`|[getMembershipInformation](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#getmembershipinformation)|
|`replication().trigger()`|[postReplicate](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#postreplicate)|
|`db.remove() with the replication document _id`|[deleteReplicationDocument](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#deletereplicationdocument)|

> |`db.find() with the replication document _id`|[getReplicationDocument](https://cloud.ibm.com/apidocs/cloudant?code=java#getreplicationdocument)|

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is correct.
I think we need:
`replicator().remove()`
`replicator().find()`
`replicator().save()`

Noting that `replication()` is the `_replicate` endpoint and `replicator()` gives the `_replicator` database.

Author: Done in 2c7b88c.

# Migrating to the `cloudant-java-sdk` library
This document is to assist in migrating from the `java-cloudant` (package: `com.cloudant.cloudant-client`) to the newly supported [`cloudant-java-sdk`](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk) (package: `com.ibm.cloud.cloudant`).

## Initializing the client connection
There are several ways to create a client connection in `cloudant-java-sdk`:
1. [Environment variables](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-environment-variables)
2. [External configuration file](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-external-configuration)
3. [Programmatically](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#programmatic-authentication)

[See the README](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#code-examples) for code examples on using environment variables.

> ## Other differences

Reviewer: We'll also want to mention that there's no pagination support for views.

Author: Done in f8f8c8c.

1. Fetching the Database object first before performing additional operations is not required. For example, in the case of updating a document you would first call `getDocument` to fetch and then `putDocument` to update.

> 2. Model classes are used instead of POJOs.

Reviewer: What about adding an example with a common model?

Author: Do not you think the linked examples are enough? If not, could you help me with this?

Reviewer: Yea maybe they are enough, although I'm wondering if we want to point to a common example in this statement e.g. `PUT /db/docid` using `Document` schema.  @ricellis wdyt?

> 3. Sending and receiving plain objects and streaming are both available. E.g. the `db.find` equivalent `getDocument` is returning with a `Document` object, meanwhile `getDocumentAsStream` is returning with an `InputStream`.

Reviewer: How about adding links to the `...AsStream` examples in the API docs?

Reviewer: Maybe we should add the `...AsStream` operations to the reference table and then mention those operations here.

Author: I have added them to the table in cc74fbf. I used the original link since there is no hook that can jump on the `AsStream` examples directly, and I excluded the ones out from the links where there is no example for the operation as a stream.

> 3. Sending and receiving plain objects and streaming are both available in some cases. E.g. the `db.find` equivalent `getDocument` is returning with a `Document` object, meanwhile `getDocumentAsStream` is returning with an `InputStream`. The `...AsStream` alternatives can be used next to the `postAllDocs`, `postChanges`, `postSearch`, `postFind`, `postPartitionAllDocs`, `postPartitionSearch`, `postPartitionView`, `postPartitionFind`, and the getDocument  methods.

Reviewer: I think we can point to what we've already written in the README.  @mojito317 @ricellis wdyt?
```suggestion
3. Sending and receiving byte responses is available for some of our operations.  See [the Raw IO section](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#raw-io) of `cloudant-java-sdk` README for more details.
```

Author: https://github.com/cloudant/java-cloudant/pull/518/commits/aceb42aed9c3ed3a8b07564511934103f899cd1e

# Migrating to the `cloudant-java-sdk` library

> This document is to assist in migrating from the `java-cloudant` (package: `com.cloudant.cloudant-client`) to the newly supported [`cloudant-java-sdk`](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk) (package: `com.ibm.cloud.cloudant`).

Author: Done in 0894e9a.

## Initializing the client connection
There are several ways to create a client connection in `cloudant-java-sdk`:
1. [Environment variables](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-environment-variables)
2. [External configuration file](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#authentication-with-external-configuration)
3. [Programmatically](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#programmatic-authentication)

[See the README](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#code-examples) for code examples on using environment variables.

## Other differences
1. Fetching the Database object first before performing additional operations is not required. For example, in the case of updating a document you would first call `getDocument` to fetch and then `putDocument` to update.

> 1. Model classes are used instead of POJOs.

Author: I introduced some examples based on this description in https://github.com/cloudant/java-cloudant/pull/518/commits/4a283b0b7a09350f8d6798a5ec3b08e9d0358777

> 1. Sending and receiving byte responses is available for some of our operations.  See [the Raw IO section](https://github.com/IBM/cloudant-java-sdk#raw-io) of `cloudant-java-sdk` README for more details.

Author: Done in 0894e9a.

> 1. There is no pagination support for views.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be worth pointing to the pagination recipes - I think the best way to do this would be to add the `Pagination` front-matter to the API reference and then link to there as it is useful outside of the context of migration in any case. I'll raise another item for that work.

For now maybe a statement of "examples coming soon" or something?

Author: Done in https://github.com/cloudant/java-cloudant/pull/518/commits/4a283b0b7a09350f8d6798a5ec3b08e9d0358777
